# Genetics of Chemotherapy Toxicity in Human Lymphoblastoid Cell Lines from Diverse Populations
#### The development of effective chemotherapy treatments is critical in the fight against cancer, the second leading cause of death globally. Cancer is a highly personalized disease without an overarching cure, thus it is important to consider how genetic variation between ethnic groups affects the drug response of individuals. Lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) provide a useful model for identifying genetic variants associated with phenotypes in pharmacogenomic studies. This method has recently been applied to chemotherapy drug research in order to determine the cytotoxicty of various drugs. Drug response is a complex phenotype regulated by multiple loci, which we seek to identify by conducting genome wide association studies (GWAS), PrediXcan transcriptome association studies, and genetic correlation studies. Due to the complex nature of this disease, an interdisciplinary approach to research is required to facilitate the improvement of cancer treatments. This project will incorporate genetics, medicine, statistics, and computer science. By performing both GWAS and PrediXcan, we aim to compile a more complete list of the genes that play a significant role in chemotherapy drug response in different ethnic cohorts. This project intends to compare these results between cohorts in effort to discover how genetic variation creates unique drug responses within different populations. In doing so, we strive to promote greater diversity within genetic research. Through the identification of genes significantly associated with toxicity phenotypes across populations, we strive to deepen our understanding of the genetic factors impacting the effectiveness of existing chemotherapy drugs and to enable the development and use of precision medication for cancer treatment in the future.
